The President: Hi everybody.
As president, I spend most of my
time focused on what we can do
to grow the economy and grow
new pathways of opportunity for
Americans like you to get ahead.
And we've made progress.
More than 12 million new private
sector jobs in the past five years.
More than 16 million Americans
who have gained health insurance.
More jobs creating
more clean energy.
More kids graduating from high
school and college than ever
before.
But in a relentlessly
changing economy,
we've still got more work to do.
And one of things we should
be doing, for example,
is re-writing the rules of
global trade to benefit American
workers and American businesses.
I think we should write those
rules before China does.
That's why I've been working
with Congress to pass new 21st
Century Trade Agreements with
standards that are higher and
protections that are tougher
than any past trade agreement.
I believe it's the right thing
to do for American workers and
families or I
wouldn't be doing it.
I believe it's what will give us
the competitive edge in a new
economy or I would
not be doing it.
Now, several members
of Congress disagree.
That's why it's still
tied up there with there,
along with a lot of other good
ideas that would create jobs.
And eventually, I'm optimistic
we'll get this done.
But America does
not stand still.
And that's why on issue after
issue where Congress has failed
to act, my administration has
partnered with mayors and
governors across the country to
advance economic priorities that
most working families in America
are in favor of doing right now.
And we've had success.
Over the past couple of years,
17 states and 6 major cities
have raised the minimum
wage for their workers.
19 cities have enacted
paid sick days.
And five states have
enacted paid sick days
or paid family leave.
34 states increased
funding for quality pre-K.
And 19 cities and states have
signed up for our new TechHire
initiative to train
workers for the high wage,
high skill jobs of tomorrow;
the kind of jobs that new trade
deals would help create.
Some of these victories
have been small.
Some have been quiet.
But they've added up to a big
difference for working families
across America.
And that's what
matters to me the most.
Because it matters to you.
On Friday, I talked about
these initiatives and more
in a speech to the U.S.
Conference of Mayors.
Check it out at
whitehouse.gov.
Some of it might
matter to your city.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.